US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
has issued a rare public criticism of
Israel's military conduct in Gaza he
says its tactics have caused a horrible
loss of life of innocent civilians he
also said Israel lacks a credible plan
to protect civilians in Rafa ahead of a
full-scale offensive which it has warned
it will carry out blinkin made the
comments during appearances on Sunday
talk shows in the US Mike Hannah reports
from Washington
DC the secretary of state has been doing
the talk show circuit basically
defending his Department's memorandum to
Congress in which it was supposed to
decide whether or not Israel was
contravening International humanitarian
law with its use of Us weapons well the
report basically concluded maybe uh not
possible to be absolutely definite now
this report has drawn a lot of criticism
also from some democratic members of
Congress uh the Secretary of State
though also speaking about President
Biden's Red Line uh President Biden
referred to this when he was discussing
a potential Israeli threat of an
invasion of Rafa saying that this could
be a red line now the secretary of state
was asked about that on one of the talk
shows we have uh been holding back and
we're in active conversations with
Israel about the provision of heavy uh
or high payload weapons of large bombs
because of the concern that we have
about the effect these weapons can have
when they're used in a dense Urban
environment like Rafa we're discussing
that with Israel right now second what
the president said is that if Israel
goes in with a major military operation
Rafa uh in that case uh there are
certain systems that we will not provide
to Israel uh that would aid aid that
that effort because it's something that
we do not want to be part of given the
damage that it would do to civilians and
again uh not to achieve
a a durable lasting effective result for
Israel and for its security that's what
the president said we've said that in uh
conversations with our Israeli Partners
the results that we've seen uh in terms
of the horrible uh loss of life of of
innocent civilians it's reasonable to
assess as we say in the report that
there are instances where they've acted
inconsistent with their obligations
under International humanitarian law
those those investigations continue both
by us and by Israel well a single
shipment of those
2,000 uh Precision bombs has been put on
hold it is still on hold pending review
however all other scheduled weapon
shipments to Israel are going ahead Mike
Hannah aljazera
Washington make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler